Problems with password
I don’t need to explain what password really is. Hence, I will be summarizing the
problems that password have/has.

1. Users won’t choose long passwords as it’s hard to remember
2. Users won’t choose passwords that have been rarely used by public
3. Users will reuse any passwords that they have been used

Majority of the users use password to login/sign up for an online service. It’s
uncertain whether the services use cryptography hashing (standard and safest way)
to produce and store the fingerprint. 

4. Let’s say they don’t use cryptography hashing or use improper cryptography
hashing to generate and store the fingerprint and the service provider servers
get hacked. What you can expect is that all passwords that were chosen by the
users get stolen and possibly was auctioned through dark web by using cryptocurrency.
This whole incident can be summarized as “data leakage/data breaches”, this does not
only limit to passwords, it can also apply to many of the private information that
users willingly submit to the service provider.

If someone buys that list of passwords and it happens to be your password is in
that list. You use that password into logging into any online services. You may start
to get the idea. Users will not bother with choosing passwords that are not in any
of the data leakage/breaches incident.

5. If the services that users use did indeed uses proper cryptography hashing to
produce and store the fingerprint. Let’s say the server gets hacked, it may take
considerable amount of time and energy to keep on feeding potential password then
get its output and compare with the fingerprint stored. 

Users might start to think, “Oh goodness, I appreciate the service provider uses
proper cryptography hashing to protect my passwords”. Hang on a minute.., this case is also
similar to problem number 4. Even if attacker/hacker is trying to guess what your password could be,
it’s not recommended to use the password that has been leaked in properly protected format. 

The truth is.., users won’t care.

6. Due to the presence of PIN or numbers that bank uses to request verification from users,
many users will stick to their old good fashioned bad password mindset and practices.
If your passwords are good and strong, you wouldn’t need to even rely on PIN or numbers.

You may or may not want to see if your passwords are in that big list. Here’s a link.
(https://haveibeenpwned.com/Passwords)

The first problem which is good password requires a long numbers of characters. However, the minimum length of good password has been changed since 2016. For more information, you can refer to passwords topic on ComputerPhile YouTube channel.
